Imagine the following: for nearly two decades, you have been saving for your child’s college education. Now, eighteen years later, your child is about to go to college, and they will be able to graduate debt free, thanks to their college fund. However, you discover a charity where a donation in the amount of the college fund could save 100 children from starvation. After discovering the charity, you feel conflicted; donating would save 100 lives, but at the expense of your child’s education and/or financial stability. Do you keep the money or do you donate? Peter Singer, author of “Famine, Affluence, and Morality”, would argue that you are morally obligated to donate. In his writing, he asserts that we have a moral duty to reduce as much suffering as possible. Karen Green, author of “Divided Responsibility and Universalizability,” on the other hand, challenges this viewpoint, stating that our responsibility to aid is dependent on partial factors. I will begin by reconstructing Singer’s argument regarding our duty to aid. I will explain why Singer believes we have a duty to aid and the principle he derives from these sentiments. Next, I will explain the critiques raised by Green and why she believes Singer’s principle is contradictory. Finally, I will argue that Green’s argument is more successful than Singer’s because she proves that Singer’s principle is contradictory, and she successfully explains why impartial responsibilities are not viable when attempting to reduce suffering. 
	We will begin by examining each author’s argument. Singer begins his argument by asserting that human suffering is both bad and unavoidable. The first statement is assumed to be true, reasonably so, while the second can be derived by examining the financial scope of suffering. At the time Singer’s writing was published, millions of people were dying from lack of food, shelter, and medical care (Singer, 1972, 229). However, there was little to no intervention on any level from affluent nations. Neither individuals nor governments were not donating their time or money to aid those suffering. Notably, the Britain government invested thirty times more money on supersonic travel than on aid for refugees (Singer, 1972, 229). Australia spent 12 times more money on an opera house than on aid for refugees in Bengal (Singer, 1972, 230). These are not the only instances where substantial funds that could have greatly reduced suffering were instead spent on seemingly frivolous endeavors, but they do suggest a pattern of valuing material objects over human life. 
	Singer builds off of these sentiments by forming the central claim that “if it is in our power to prevent something bad from happening, without thereby sacrificing anything of moral importance, we ought, morally, to do it” (Singer, 1972, 231). In other words, we are morally bound to reduce net-suffering as much as we have the capacity to do so. Under this principle, Britain and Australia would have spent tens of million more on aid, as supersonic travel and opera houses are not of “equal moral importance” to human life (Singer, 1972, 231). On a more individual level, this principle suggests that one should spend their excess money on charitable donations rather than vacations or designer clothing, as a donation that can save lives holds far more moral importance than a trip or outfit. 
	Singer also argues that the layers of abstraction that usually prevent people from taking action, such as distance or universability, do not hold for his principle. Firstly, our moral duty to those physically close to us is no different than our moral obligation towards those who are farther away. There is no difference between helping a drowning child within eyesight versus aiding a “Bengali whose name I shall never know, ten thousand miles away” (Singer, 1972, 232). Neither the suffering an individual faces, nor our obligation to prevent it, changes based on distance. Thus, the principle of impartiality prevents us from discriminating based on distance. While an opponent may suggest that proximity allows us to provide better assistance, modern technology allows us to live in a “global village,” ensuring that our aid is just as impactful thousands of miles away as it would be “in our own block” (Singer, 1972, 232). Therefore, Singer’s principle relies on impartiality regarding distance.  
	Secondly, one’s responsibility to aid is not dependent on others’ ability to aid. As stated above, an individual’s suffering and our obligation to prevent it are independent from others in our position. An individual’s suffering exists regardless of how many people have the same capacity to help. Our ability to reduce that suffering exists regardless of how many others have the same ability (Singer, 1972, 233). Thus, our obligation to aid is impartial to others’ ability.
	In summary, Singer believes that it is one’s responsibility to reduce as much suffering as they can. He believes that the only limit to this responsibility is the sacrifice of something of “comparable moral importance” and that this obligation is completely impartial. 
	Next, let's examine Green’s argument. Green raises critiques to Singer’s arguments. She believes that Singer’s principle leads to a paradox, which can only be resolved by dividing responsibility to aid based on partial factors (Green, 2003, 507). Singer’s principle is contradictory, as something of comparable moral importance will always be sacrificed. For instance, suppose you are at the beach and notice two people, Person X and Person Y, are both drowning. No one else is around, and you cannot save both.Suppose you choose to save Person Y’s life, but  at the expense of Person X’s life. Person X has comparable moral importance to Person Y, thus you have violated one of Singer’s terms by sacrificing Person X to save Person Y. This contradiction, or pragmatic paradox as referred to by Green, prevents one from ever truly following Singer’s principle (Green, 2003, 507). 
	The only way to reduce suffering without entering this paradox would be to divide responsibility based on a non-arbitrary tie-breaker (Green, 2003, 507). In the above example, complete impartiality required us to weigh Person X equally with Person Y. However, suppose Person Y was far closer in proximity than person X. You would have been able to save Person Y with complete certainty, but you likely would not have been able to save Person X. The two are no longer comparable: if you attempt to save Person Y, you will save Person Y but not Person X. If you attempt to save Person X, you will not save Person X nor Person Y because you did not have the capacity to save Person X in the first place. Hence this paradox demands for a pragmatic principle, or tie-breaker, to divide responsibility. 
	However, accepting this tie-breaker poses another problem in Singer’s principle: because responsibility has been divided, there is a clear distinction in “cases in which I am the only person who could possibly do something and cases in which I am just one among millions in the same position” (Singer, 1972, 232). For instance, suppose you are at a public pool. In this environment, lifeguards hold the responsibility of every individual’s safety. If someone drowns, it is the lifeguard’s responsibility to step in, regardless of how many attendees are “in the same position” of having the capacity to help (Green, 2003, 507).
	In essence, Singer’s principle holds a contradiction that cannot be solved without removing the core of his argument. In order to reduce suffering without sacrificing something of comparable moral importance, responsibilities to suffering must be partitioned by partial factors. However, once responsibility based on partiality is introduced, impartial responsibility must be removed, as individuals are only obligated to reduce suffering according to their respective responsibilities, rather than in any context that they have the capacity to help (Green, 2003, 508). 
While Singer presents a strong argument regarding duty to aid, Green’s arguments are far more compelling because of the contradictory nature of Singer’s principle and the necessity of partitioning responsibility. As Green explained, Singer’s principle is contradictory because it both requires and disallows a sacrifice of “comparable moral importance” (Green, 2003, 507). A proponent of Singer might argue that Green is misinterpreting Singer’s argument. When Singer refers to something of “comparable moral importance” he is referring to something that an individual already possesses and must give up, not something they are considering. However, this is simply not the case. Consider the earlier example regarding Person X and Person Y. Singer explicitly states that one possesses a responsibility to both Person X and Person Y (Singer, 1972, 235). Therefore, Green’s assertion that something of “comparable moral importance” is in fact correct. 
The only solution to this contradiction, dividing responsibility, alters our duty so that we are only obligated to aid in cases where our responsibility lies. An opponent of Green may argue that dividing responsibility causes problems when individuals do not meet their obligations. However, Green accepts this and states that partiality must be limited to an extent (Green, 2003, 504). While Green opposes total impartiality, she also opposes total partiality, arguing for a medium that minimizes suffering more than Singer’s principle (Green, 2003, 509). For instance, while Singer may argue that you are no more obligated to your own child than you are to other children in your town, Green argues that each parent is more obligated to their own children than to other children. In cases where a parent does not meet their obligations and a child suffers, there are limits on partiality, such as taxes that fund community programs (Green, 2003, 510). These programs then account for and work to reduce that instance of suffering. In short, suffering is minimized when there is a balance between individual responsibility and lack thereof. Because Green’s arguments seem to reduce the most suffering, she has successfully conveyed that individuals are not accountable for all suffering. 
